#Exploratory Analysis of US EPA National Emissions Data

**Exploratory Data Analysis Course Project 2**     
**Taught by Roger Peng PhD., Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health**

##Assignment: 
Explore the National Emissions Inventory database and see what it says about fine   
particulate matter pollution (PM2.5) in the United States over the 10-year period   
1999–2008.

Six R scripts were written to generate plots addressing six questions  
posed by Dr. Peng regarding the emissions data. scripts can be run independently   
of each other as code for downloading the data for analysis is included in each   
script. Plots generated by each of the six R scripts are contained in the directory   
./PM25_Plots.

##Contents of Repository
###Datasets Used in Analysis:
**./PM25_Data/summarySCC_PM25.rds**
This file contains a data frame with all of the PM2.5 emissions data 
for 1999, 2002, 2005, and 2008.

**./PM25_Data/Source_Classification_Code.rds**
This table provides a mapping from the SCC digit strings in the Emissions 
table to the actual name of the PM2.5 source.  

###R Scripts to Generate Plots
**plot1.R**         
Addresses whether emissions from PM2.5 decreased in the United States from    
1999 to 2008. Uses the base plotting system to make a plot showing the total PM2.5  
emission from all sources for each of the years 1999, 2002, 2005, and 2008.

**plot2.R**   
Uses the base plotting system to make a plot that addresses whether total emissions   
from PM2.5 decreased in the Baltimore City, Maryland (fips == "24510")  
from 1999 to 2008.

**plot3.R**    
Uses the ggplot2 plotting system to determine which of the four types of sources    
indicated by the type variable (point, nonpoint, onroad, nonroad) have seen  
decreases/increases in emissions from 1999–2008 for Baltimore City.

**plot4.R**   
Uses the ggplot2 system to address how emissions from coal combustion-related sources   
have changed across the United States from 1999–2008?

**plot5.R**   
Uses the ggplot2 system to address how emissions from motor vehicle sources have  
changed from 1999–2008 in Baltimore City?

**plot6.**   
Uses the ggplot2 system to compare emissions from motor vehicle sources in Baltimore  
City with emissions from motor vehicle sources in Los Angeles County, California  
(fips == "06037") and to determine which city has seen the greatest change in motor  
vehicle emissions over time.

###Plots Generated by R Scripts
**./PM25_Plots/plot1.png**   
Plot generated by plot1.R

**./PM25_Plots/plot2.png**   
Plot generated by plot2.R

**./PM25_Plots/plot3.png**   
Plot generated by plot3.R

**./PM25_Plots/plot4.png**      
Plot generated by plot4.R

**./PM25_Plots/plot5.png**  
Plot generated by plot5.R

**./PM25_Plots/plot6.png**  
Plot generated by plot6.R
